A swirl of dust licked at the grass sandals of the men standing on
the hill. There were eight men, and they stood looking west over the
burned, gutted land that lay barren before them--barren except for a
series of huge mounds that lay in a depression far out from the hills
on the rocky plains.

"Do you still think we can make it?" asked a stocky man with a livid
scar that ran from his upper lip to his forehead. "I for one would
rather live alone and meagerly than not live at all."

The speaker received a stern glance from a tall hawk-nosed man wearing
a finely-worked leather belt, apparently a symbol of leadership.

"We have already agreed, remember, Franz? We have to succeed or
disappear off the face of the Earth. You may turn back if you wish. We
are going on."

Franz scowled, rubbed his scar and contemplated the mounds in the
distance. "You forget I have lived there. You have not. Well, maybe to
be a slave is not so bad after all. Or to die."

"If we die we will not go alone," said Sten, the leader. He turned to
the others. "Let's go. It will be dark soon."

The men moved single-file down through the hills without speaking.

As it grew dark they could feel the heat radiate from the sand. They
felt the heat press against them and silently praised Sten's wisdom in
waiting for the cold time of year before making the attempt. They wore
a tunic of coarse-woven cloth that hung loose from their shoulders, and
even that single garment was too warm here. They moved in silence, Sten
in the lead, followed by his brother, Johnathon, a smaller man with
wide shoulders and a quick smile.

A gibbous moon was showing over the mountains when they stopped.
Solemnly they gathered in a circle.

"We will separate now," Sten spoke softly. "Franz and Johnathon and
Karl and I will enter from the south. Bradley, you and the others will
find the way in from the north. You can find the place. If we're not
back at our last camp by morning of the third day, go on without us.
You have the map where the valley lies?"

The leader of the other group nodded.

"Then hurry. Until three days, then. Remember, the only hope lies in
us. Some of us have to make it!" The men separated with only a wave of
farewell and the two groups moved in opposite directions across the hot
sands.

Clouds covered the moon and it grew darker as the four men approached
the edge of the mounds. An ominous sense of foreboding fell over them.
It seemed they could feel the vibration of the city that lay beneath
them. Beneath them lay life--stilted, twisted, enslaved life, but life
nevertheless.

"Are you sure they don't post a guard?" Johnathon asked.

"Against what, the Root-Diggers?" Franz spat contemptuously. "No, they
are secure. They need fear nothing."

It was another hour before they found the tunnel and entered in single
file. Groping their way through the darkness, they finally felt a solid
wall rise in front of them. Franz made his way to the left, feeling his
way along the wall until he found a large box in a niche in the rock.

"It's here! It's still here after all."

"Good," Sten said. "All right, everybody up against the wall and push."

Karl, the biggest of the men, laughed as he eased his bulk against the
obstruction. "It would be real sport," he said, "to move this wall and
find one of their Steel-heads waiting for us."

Franz snickered. "It wouldn't be sport long, my friend. They're trained
from birth to be trigger-happy and there's nothing anyone in Panamia
fears more than the outside, or anything connected with it. And we're
outsiders."

The wall suddenly gave before them and they moved into a half-darkened
room. Carefully, in a sort of frozen silence, they moved the wall
back into place. The box had contained city clothes; and now the men
worked swiftly in the semi-darkness. When they were ready Franz walked
up and down making final adjustments in each of their uniforms. As he
finished, Sten laid his hand on his shoulder. "Franz, you'll take over
now. You know what everything is like here. We're placing ourselves in
your hands."

Franz shrugged his shoulders almost as if he were disinterested in the
drama in which they were taking part. His eyes searched the faces of
the men.

"So you want women, eh? You want to preserve our race--the glorious
animal, Man. Ha! I ask you to ponder for a moment, before it is too
late, whether this race is worth preserving. Men have been furthering
the race for milleniums and what has it come to? Consider if the earth
wouldn't prosper better without Man."

The men shifted uneasily. "Forget all that, Franz," Sten snapped.
"You know there must be an answer somewhere. This is our only chance.
